JEP Draft - Community Bridge Funding (#286)
jenkinsci/jep: jep/15/README.adoc

// Use the script `set-jep-status <jep-number> <status>` to update the status.
| Status
| Draft :speech_balloon:

| Type
| Process

| Created
| Date (2020-06-04)

| BDFL-Delegate
| TBD

| JIRA
| https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/INFRA-2396[INFRA-2396]

| Discussions-To
| link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/jenkinsci-dev/iLutO2X0bdg/4nfrEetjDwAJ[Jenkins developer mailing list]
//
//
// Uncomment if this JEP depends on one or more other JEPs.
//| Requires
//| :bulb: JEP-NUMBER, JEP-NUMBER... :bulb:
//
//
// Uncomment and fill if this JEP is rendered obsolete by a later JEP
//| Superseded-By
//| :bulb: JEP-NUMBER :bulb:
//
//
// Uncomment when this JEP status is set to Accepted, Rejected or Withdrawn.
//| Resolution
//| :bulb: Link to relevant post in the jenkinsci-dev@ mailing list archives :bulb:

|===

== Abstract

This JEP documents the policy for donations received through the Community Bridge Funding portal.
This JEP replaces original funding through SPI and ffis.de documented on link:https://www.jenkins.io/donate/p[jenkins.io/donate].
Jenkins profile on CommunityBridge is available link:https://funding.communitybridge.org/projects/jenkins[here].

== Motivation

> At the moment of this JEP submission the Jenkins project had no fully operational way for donating money to the project.

Author: For "people or organizations"?

> At the moment of this JEP submission the Jenkins project had no fully operational way for donating money to the project.

Reviewer: Yes, that sounds good.

> At the moment of this JEP submission the Jenkins project had no fully operational way for donating money to the project.

Author: ```suggestion
At the moment of this JEP submission the Jenkins project had no fully operational way for individuals or organizations to donate money to the project.
```

> Donations through link:http://www.spi-inc.org/[Software in the Public Interest (SPI)] were deprecated due to the ongoing transition of the project

Author: "Donations ... were". Am I missing somethoing?

> Donations through link:http://www.spi-inc.org/[Software in the Public Interest (SPI)] were deprecated due to the ongoing transition of the project

Reviewer: Yeah, I'm not sure why I changed that.

If approved, such donations will be reserved for a specific project and not used for alternate expenses.

Targeted donations must not be considered as a contract work.
Donations will **NOT** be used for paying personnel.
They will be used to facilitate a particular initiative through the Jenkins community (events, mentorship programs, etc.).
In no case Jenkins project will commit to deliver a feature or on a timeline.

=== Process guidelines

==== Roles and terms

* _Supporter_ - An individual or an organization donating money to the Jenkins project.
* _Expense Requester_ - An individual or a company contributor requesting reimbursement.
* _CommunityBridge administrator_ - a Jenkins board member with administrative access to the CommunityBridge profile
** Similar to the former SPI reimbursement process,
Jenkins governance board is responsible for approving all expenses submitted through CommunityBridge.

==== Use of donations

As stated in the link:https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/docs/communitybridge/communitybridge-funding/[CommunityBridge documentation],

> _the project maintainers can adjust fund allocations and may not use the funds per requested allocation_.

Author: Unfortunately Community Bridge documentation does not support links to sub-pages, they end up with Error 404. But yes, your interpretation is good

Donations should be submitted through the CommunityBridge Funding system which supports donations by individuals and by organizations.
It is possible to do a donation for "all project needs" or a targeted donation to any destination listed above.
The process is documented link:https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/docs/communitybridge/communitybridge-funding/[here].

For the Jenkins project all payment options are enabled:

* One-time or monthly donations through via credit or debit card
* One-time donations through invoices - for organizations making one-time donations

==== Reimbursement process

* Expenses should be pre-approved through the Jenkins developer mailing list and
the link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/governance-meeting/[Governance meeting] **BEFORE** the expense happens.
* The requester is registered on the CommunityBridge portal as a beneficiary
* After the expense happens, the requester should submit an expense report through the CommunityBridge Expensify portal.
* Expense reports should be approved by a CommunityBridge administrator

=== Implementation

==== CommunityBridge portal

* CommunityBridge configuration should be updated according to this JEP

> * At least 3 Jenkins Governance Board members should be added as CommunityBridge administrators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At least 3 Jenkins Governance Board members should be added as CommunityBridge Administrators
```

==== jenkins.io

* link:https://www.jenkins.io/donate/[jenkins.io/donate] should be updated
** _Why donate?_ should be updated to reflect motivation of this JEP and to reference non-infrastructure donations.
** The page should reference this Jenkins Enhancement proposal.

> ** Donations through SPI and ffis.de should be removed prom the page ads obsolete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Donations through SPI and ffis.de should be removed from the page as obsolete.
```

==== GitHub Sponsor buttons

One of the ways to facilitate the donations is to make donation buttons explicit on GitHub.

> There is a way to link:https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/displaying-a-sponsor-button-in-your-repository[displayi a sponsor button in a repository]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a way to link:https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/displaying-a-sponsor-button-in-your-repository[display a sponsor button in a repository]
```

which allows adding multiple links via a `FUNDING.yml` metadata file.

* link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/[jenkinsci] GitHub organization -
  Sponsor button is added to the Jenkins core and other core components.
** Maintainers of plugins, tools, and subprojects can add the Sponsor buttons if they wish.

>    They can use the Jenkins project funding or to setup their own funding.

Reviewer: Do we need to have a guidance document as to what is allowed for plugin developers to set up their own funding? We don't want to have cases where plugin developers have funding terms in opposition to the ideals of the project.

Author: Might be. Not sure it is a part of this JEP though. If you have ideas what to include, I am happy to add it to the JEP

Reviewer: No ideas currently, just maybe add a note that sponsorship guidelines may be developed for plugins, etc?
